i'm just
quickly going to demonstrate that so
let me remove a file
and if i take a look into the directory
at the most recent version state of the
history there actually is no chinstrap
file inputs images
inputs images
that's there's one file but there's the
other one that i deleted it's it's gone
but as you as you as you very um
correctly said this is just the most
recent state in my history so one thing
that i can do is i can for example say
give check out
and then i'm going to go
one commit back
and if i repeat the list command then
actually the file is still there
and it also
has its content here there's still
there's still this penguin
um and removing it and even saving this
removal
has done nothing to actually free my
data set off this file um even though i
can now go back to the most recent stage
i can so
you've seen me time travel a little bit
now i'm back into a the most recent
revision where this file is gone i can
still say oh man here this is uh
this is what i've been
messing up so i can say get that
you can see it now i haven't included
the no edit flag so it will ask me
um
how to how to
which commit to associate with it
um
i do not recommend to get in this state
because it's it's vim which is a little
bit of a weird editor if you haven't
haven't used it if you ever end up in
this thing then the way to save a file
to save this and get out of this is by
um
doing a colon wq
and then hitting enter it's uh editor
that requires a little bit of knowledge
but uh sorry
but now that i've reverted
uh this
commit where i've
removed stuff it's actually
it's actually it's coming back to life
so that's that's problematic in case i
have a data set that contains you know
uh 500 gigabytes of files and i actually
don't have that much space and i want to
get rid of the files and
i
maybe want to remove them permanently
even
so
drop and remove are the files that
will make it possible to
delete file content or temporarily
delete file content from your disk
or permanently delete
repositories from your file system
and in order to to practice this you can
turn to the um
to the to the code that i've shared here
and uh let's oh that's i think that's
the wrong one sorry that's branching
uh actually it should be this one
episode removing datasets and files
uh shed the wrong link
oh i already did it
um so in order to um to practice this
we're going to just clone a data set
from github that has a little bit of
content but just to
just to just practice importantly
do this outside of the data set that you
have created so don't clone it inside of
another dataset we'll do that tomorrow
but
change directories into
for example your home directory
[Music]
and
clone
this data set
so
this data set just contains a collection
of pdfs of a couple of really cool books
and uh let's get some file content from
this direct from this data set it's not
much it would be super fast
and
then
let's
drop the file content to free up the
disk space again
that was really easy
now the reason that this was easy is
that
some built-in security checks passed
for uh datalit um so whenever you clone
a dataset from github or from a
different place and you are able to get
the files then you will also be able to
drop them right away to free up disk
space and to get rid
of file content what you can
conceptualize drop as is the antagonist
command to get so drop tries to behave
in a way that whatever get does can be
undone by drop
um
the default safety check that i
mentioned though is that data line
ensures that
get can actually reobtain the file that
drop has just removed so if i um run git
nx where is
on this file here then there is a remote
registered location uh and if i if i get
it again then there will be
two locations
one is on this machine one is on the web
and in those cases it's safe to drop it
[Music]
what drop also does and this is only
going to be a part of the session
tomorrow but i'm just including it here
it also does something that's
called uninstall sub data sets so if you
have a data set that has loads of sub
data sets the human connection project
data set is an example of that
then get is able to get sub data sets to
individual
linked data sets and drop is able to
drop those or uninstall those data sets
and just like get leaves a trace like
the file name
um back in your data set that you can
then act upon and get
when you drop a sub data set there still
is a name of the data set and if you run
get on it then you will be able to
reinstall it so doc tries to be the
freely safe command that just
you know
frees up your disk space in the case
where you can get the data back
let's take a look into removing data
sets and also first in the easy way and
that is done with data light remove so
in order to remove a data set that is oh
i think i've seen a hand yes
um yeah i was just wondering so
um
[Music]
normally i mean if i if i would delete
something and then i look at git status
it says it's deleted but i would have to
do a commit to actually delete it right
yes
and so this is
like does this run the commit in the
background
or oh data let's see
ah drop drop you mean
um
yeah like like what i mean does it have
anything to do with commit in the
background
this is this is a really really good
question it doesn't create any commit at
all
it will not leave a trace in your git
revision history
but
it's also not something that
has the same flavor as an rm and then
save as we
did at the
five minutes ago
because it
is a command that you run on annexed
contents to free up the disk space
so
just dropping the file content locally
of re-obtaining the file content locally
it will not change anything in the
revision history of your data set
because it will not have actually
modified any of the contents
of your file um it will just alter the
availability information it's just that
there's an
internal record and that will be amended
with um
okay the file is here now or the file is
not here now anymore but in this typical
get revision history you will not see
that come up it's actually something
that is still stored on a branch but
that would be a little
deeper deep dive
okay thank you
um
yeah but thanks thanks a lot for the
question
so in order to to remove a data set
uh
you run a command that's called data
that remove and that's the command that
you need to run outside of datasets
which is very rare usually you run
dataled commands inside of datasets and
they would complain if you don't
if you're not in a dataset so what you
do is you have this little dash d flag
this is a very common flag to use it
needs to point to the data set that you
want to operate on in the case of remove
so
data let d machine learning books
books will tell data that it should
remove this precise data set it's very
useful to include it just to be super
sure which data set um shall be removed
and if i run this
then it will
uninstall it drop it and it will
actually be gone without any trace so
you can conceptualize clone as the
antagonist
removes the antagonist command to clone
so where clone
um installs a dataset from thin air that
wasn't on your system before
remove
makes it vanish from your system
and and creates the thin air again
basically
um
the default safety text that remove has
are a little bit
um uh interesting when you first run
into them what remove does is it makes
sure that
you could be able to reclone the data
set in the state that you have removed
it
um so
what this will
check for is what is called a sibling
which is a remote location where this
dataset can be cloned from such as its
original location from github and if it
cannot find this remote location where
you can theoretically reclone it from
or if you have additional commits in
your data set uh that are not available
on the place where you cloned it from
then that safety check will fail and it
will say hey you're about to potentially
lose modifications that you have done
here do you really want to continue
um and i'm going to show you
how it looks like when those safety
checks fail for drop and remove and for
this um you can
join me in creating a new local data set
uh that's a data set that we don't clone
it's not available from anywhere
and inside of this local data set let's
just create any kind of file blah blah
blah
i'm just echoing
file contents into
text file
because
this is
a data set that i haven't created that i
have created without any modification
even though this is a text file running
data let's save
will annex this file
so now i have an nx local file
and if i run git nx where is on this
file
then it will only be available here and
from no other location and if i now were
to run data let drop
to free local disk space from the
contents of this file
then datalit will say oh no
i'm not going to do this
are you really sure that
you want to do this so it says unsafe
could only verify the existence
of
no out of one necessary copies of that
file that's a configuration you can
change that you can you can make sure
that for example you have two copies of
every file just to be extra sure and
then it says if you want to overwrite
the security check and potentially lose
data because i'm i don't know any place
where i could retrieve this for you then
you can use a parameter that is called
reckless with a mode that indicates
which safety check should be overwritten
uh and this in this case it's the
availability um
safety check so what i can do in order
to really
enforce
yeah they tell us basically here and
i mean it's not it's not that
it they're really valuable use cases
like you have created stuff that you
really don't need anymore that's plainly
wrong in or just past versions of files
um
then drop the file content that's
completely cool but there is this this
built-in security check that makes sure
that there's no data loss so
there's a lot of text to write i always
re mis-type but when you run data like
drop with
reckless availability you will
basically um disable the safety check so
it will just be really fast it will not
try to check any remote location it will
just
um drop that file but the content so you
can see this is kind of a
dangerous looking mark up here that the
shell applies this means there is no
content here i'm just i'm just a poor
broken like i'm just a poor filing with
no content associated to it and at this
point there's no way to get it back
um a different use case for example is
when you drop stuff and there is a
remote registered location but it's not
available so if you do this on your
local computer with the books for
example and then cut off your internet
connection then it will not be able to
perform
the safety check um that so it probes
the remote location on whether it
actually still has the file and whether
that file has the right identity or if
you have a backup on your usb stick but
your usb stick is not plugged in the
dataset will have a record of hey this
file should be available from the usb
stick but it can't reach the usb stick
so in that cases those checks would also
obviously fail and then you can also
just overwrite them with the reckless
availability check
um
one thing that you should be mindful of
is that um drop will only
drop the most recent version so only the
file content that your most recent the
data set state points to
if you have a file that has been
frequently modified
and you want to remove all of the past
versions
that exists of this file
from your data set history then there's
a convenience command that is called git
nx unused that will go through your
history of files and it will check if
there are any past versions of files
that are simply not referenced anymore
so if you if you remove a file um if you
drop its content but there are contents
um from the previous commit
um
then get nx unused will identify hey
here's stuff that you indicated in one
version you wouldn't need anymore um
shall i drop the other stuff too
and then you can you can instruct it to
to drop them as well but again it's just
it's it's it's something that
will cause data loss in case
uh you are dropping stuff that's not
locally
that's not available
anywhere else
as for remove
if i were to data let's remove this
data set
what datalet will perform is again an
availability check
on whether this data set can be cloned
from anywhere else
and there is no
location where i have cloned this from
no logo path no remote
path no url no github repository
and the error message that you will see
in this case is to redrop data sets has
revisions that are not available at any
known sibling so any other
linked data set
and then it advises you to either
datelet push
that is publish the changes to a remote
location so that there's
a different copy of the data set it
still has all of your modifications
secure and version controlled and you
can re-clone it if you need to
or ignore this check also via data
via reckless availability
it also includes a little
indication of what is the revision that
is not available from anywhere else uh
this is not so useful in the case of hey
i have a local data set i'm just going
to remove it but let's say you have a
data set
and you remove it but it actually
contains some new additions on for
example
a different
development streak
then datalet will say hey you did do
these kinds of changes in that location
or in this timeline here of your dataset
are you really sure you would want to
permanently remove them and
let's say not not push them
or propose them
to
an upstream repository
so
just as with drop
reckless
availability
to this uh
command invocation
overrides the security check and lets
you uninstall data sets that you
probably would not be able to clone
again
now
the um
one thing that happens with data data
sets when you remove them wrong is you
will get a number of
colorful permission denied errors
and
i'm going to show you how to remove a
data set in the wrong way because it
sometimes just happen happens
by accident or by someone who has never
worked with a data dataset
so for this i'm just quickly going to
create this
local data set again
and i'm also going to
add
a file
into it so that i can show you
um
what is shown on the slide
because this only happens um in data
sets where you have annexed content that
is locally present
but this is often the case with data
sets so we again have a local data set
with annexed files and if i now were to
use the standard unix way of removing
directories with an mrrmrf
of this local dataset what you will see
is stuff like that so for every annexed
file that is locally present it will
have a pointer into the internally
version control file that is not
writable and it will leave
this um
the zombie directory
um into
in your working directory it kind of
looks empty but it actually isn't empty
um
visit ls
a there is still the git repository but
the git repository has been completely
crippled it has been stripped of
everything but the right protected files
it's a buttered up version controlled
directory there's no way to restore this
it is completely broken you can't get a
version history from it but it has this
weird uh gibberish thing here that you
will not be able to rmrf in any way so
what happens um
uh what you need to do in case uh you
have a if you ever happen to rmrf a data
set accidentally
is
and that's that's for unix
windows will not have that problem so
windows users can can
relax
but on unix
you have to what is called modded that
changes the file mode bits that indicate
whether or not the file has right
permissions or not so um the command on
the unix terminal is
smart
plus w
that means
add write permissions plus write
permissions and then
the minus dash air r
um to apply this operation recursively
throughout all contents of the directory
and then local data set so make the
complete data set or the complete
directory and all it includes every
subdirectory writable
and then you can actually rmrf it and
then you have
you have cleaned up
the mess